# Twitter Data Analysis and Sentiment Analysis

## Overview

This project involves sampling Twitter data using the Twitter Search API to collect tweets related to a specific topic, analyzing the sentiment of the collected tweets, and performing various analyses to gain insights into the Twitter data. The project is divided into multiple problem statements, each addressing different aspects of Twitter data analysis.

## Project Structure

The project is structured into multiple problem statements, each addressing a specific task:

1. **Sampling Twitter Data**: Tweets related to a specified topic are collected using the Twitter Search API, excluding retweets.

2. **Word Frequency Analysis**: The frequencies of words in the collected tweets are computed, and a table of the top 30 words is plotted.

3. **Identifying Popular Tweets**: The top 10 most popular tweets in the collection, based on the number of retweets, are identified and displayed in a table.

4. **Identifying Tweet Entities**: The top 10 hashtags and user mentions in the collection of tweets are identified and displayed in separate tables.

5. **Getting All Friends and Followers**: The list of all friends and followers of a specified Twitter user is obtained, and mutual friends are identified.

6. **Sentiment Analysis**: Tweets from a specific user (e.g., Joe Biden) are analyzed for sentiment, and the distribution of positive, negative, and neutral tweets is visualized using a word cloud.

## Dependencies

To run the code for this project, you will need:

- Python 3.x
- Tweepy library for accessing the Twitter API
- TextBlob library for sentiment analysis
- NLTK library for text preprocessing
- Matplotlib library for data visualization
- Wordcloud library for generating word clouds

You can install the required dependencies using pip:

pip install tweepy textblob nltk matplotlib wordcloud


## Usage

1. Clone this repository to your local machine.

2. Obtain Twitter API credentials and configure them in the code.

3. Run the Twitter EDA.ipynb file


4. View the output generated by each problem for analysis results.

## Results

The project generates various insights into Twitter data, including word frequency analysis, identification of popular tweets, analysis of tweet entities (hashtags and user mentions), retrieval of friends and followers, and sentiment analysis of tweets.

## Conclusion

Twitter data analysis and sentiment analysis provide valuable insights into trends, popular tweets, and sentiment patterns on the platform. By analyzing Twitter data, users can gain a better understanding of public opinions, trending topics, and influential users on Twitter.

For further analysis, additional features such as network analysis or geographic analysis could be incorporated to provide deeper insights into Twitter data.



